README.md, before:

# Hi there, I'm Klara M. Gutekunst 👋

I'm currently pursuing my Master's degree in Computer Science at the University of Kassel. 
My interests lie in machine learning, data analysis, Information Retrieval and Natural Language Processing. 
Feel free to explore my repositories to see the projects I've been working on.

## 🔬 Research and Projects

Here are some of the projects I've been involved in:

- **Master Thesis: Leveraging LLM-Generated Hard Negatives for the Impostors Approach**     
  *Repository:* [master-thesis](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/master-thesis)     
  *Description:* This repository contains the written work on my Master thesis, employing LLM-generated paraphrases as hard negatives for the Impostor approach of Koppel and Winter (2014).

- **Bachelor Thesis: Identification of Key Information with Topic Analysis on Large Unstructured Text Data**  
  *Repository:* [bachelor-thesis](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/bachelor-thesis)  
  *Description:* This repository contains the written work on my Bachelor thesis, focusing on identifying key information using topic analysis techniques.

- **Discord Detection in Time Series Data**  
  *Repository:* [discord_detection](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/discord_detection)  
  *Description:* A project to identify discords in time series data using the HOT SAX methodology.

- **Approaches for Finding Sample Pairs in Contrastive Learning**  
  *Repository:* [master-seminar-ies](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/master-seminar-ies)  
  *Description:* Work from my Master seminar focusing on methods to find sample pairs in contrastive learning, conducted under the Intelligent Embedded Systems chair.

- **Text topic**  
  *Repository:* [text_topic](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/text_topic)  
  *Description:* This repository implements a pipeline to store various data of files from a large unstructured dataset. These fields are used for topic modeling (wordclouds, based on low-dimensional versions of embedding vectors, Named Entity Clustering and document-topic incidences). The information is aggregated and visualised using FCA. A comprehensive overview of the system can be found in the [slides](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/FAT_CAT_slides/blob/main/main.pdf) presented at the conference [CONCEPTS'25](https://concepts2025.conference.ubbcluj.ro/) (September 08th-12th, 2025, Cluj-Napoca, Romania) or in the corresponding [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.22309).

- **Topic Analysis of Text Data**  
  *Repository:* [topic-analysis-text-data](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/topic-analysis-text-data)  
  *Description:* This repository provides methods and functions to find similar documents in terms of content and visual appearance, i.e. layout, from a large corpus of unstructured text data. 

- **Identifying fiscal fraud with anomaly detection techniques**  
  *Repository:* [identifying-fiscal-fraud](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/identifying-fiscal-fraud)  
  *Description:* Bachelor Seminar about exploring techniques to identify anomalies and fiscal fraud.

- **Optimization of Spiking Neural Networks**  
  *Repository:* [bachelor-seminar-kde](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/bachelor-seminar-kde)      
  *Description:* Bachelor Seminar about Spiking Neural Networks. 


## 🚀 About Me

- 🔭 I’m currently working on **Data Mining of large unstructured (text) data and Information Retrieval research projects.**
- 🌱 I’m currently learning **Argumentative search & Web search** in the context of **Information Retrieval.**
- 👯 I’m looking to collaborate on **Natural Language Processing, Information Retrieval projects and open-source initiatives.**
- 💬 Ask me about **Natural Language Processing, Information Retrieval and Data Mining.**
- 😄 Pronouns: **She/Her**
- ⚡ Fun fact: **I enjoy visualizing complex data through creative infographics!**

## 📊 GitHub Stats

![Klara's GitHub stats](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=KlaraGtknst&show_icons=true&theme=default)

## 📫 Connect with Me

- **LinkedIn:** [Klara M. Gutekunst](https://www.linkedin.com/in/klara-maximiliane-gutekunst-36b463351 )
- **ORCID:** <a
    id="cy-effective-orcid-url"
    class="underline"
     href="https://orcid.org/0009-0002-6416-7873"
     target="orcid.widget"
     rel="me noopener noreferrer"
     style="vertical-align: top">
     <img
        src="https://orcid.org/sites/default/files/images/orcid_16x16.png"
        style="width: 1em; margin-inline-start: 0.5em"
        alt="ORCID iD icon"/>
      https://orcid.org/0009-0002-6416-7873
    </a>


Feel free to reach out if you're interested in collaborating or discussing any of my projects!

Commit message:

Update academic status from Master's to PhD student

README.md, after:

# Hi there, I'm Klara M. Gutekunst 👋

I'm currently a PhD Student of Computer Science at the [Deep Semantic Learning group](https://temir.org/) at the University of Kassel. 
My interests lie in machine learning, data analysis, Information Retrieval and Natural Language Processing. 
Feel free to explore my repositories to see the projects I've been working on.

## 🔬 Research and Projects

Here are some of the projects I've been involved in:

- **Master Thesis: Leveraging LLM-Generated Hard Negatives for the Impostors Approach**     
  *Repository:* [master-thesis](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/master-thesis)     
  *Description:* This repository contains the written work on my Master thesis, employing LLM-generated paraphrases as hard negatives for the Impostor approach of Koppel and Winter (2014).

- **Bachelor Thesis: Identification of Key Information with Topic Analysis on Large Unstructured Text Data**  
  *Repository:* [bachelor-thesis](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/bachelor-thesis)  
  *Description:* This repository contains the written work on my Bachelor thesis, focusing on identifying key information using topic analysis techniques.

- **Discord Detection in Time Series Data**  
  *Repository:* [discord_detection](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/discord_detection)  
  *Description:* A project to identify discords in time series data using the HOT SAX methodology.

- **Approaches for Finding Sample Pairs in Contrastive Learning**  
  *Repository:* [master-seminar-ies](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/master-seminar-ies)  
  *Description:* Work from my Master seminar focusing on methods to find sample pairs in contrastive learning, conducted under the Intelligent Embedded Systems chair.

- **Text topic**  
  *Repository:* [text_topic](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/text_topic)  
  *Description:* This repository implements a pipeline to store various data of files from a large unstructured dataset. These fields are used for topic modeling (wordclouds, based on low-dimensional versions of embedding vectors, Named Entity Clustering and document-topic incidences). The information is aggregated and visualised using FCA. A comprehensive overview of the system can be found in the [slides](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/FAT_CAT_slides/blob/main/main.pdf) presented at the conference [CONCEPTS'25](https://concepts2025.conference.ubbcluj.ro/) (September 08th-12th, 2025, Cluj-Napoca, Romania) or in the corresponding [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.22309).

- **Topic Analysis of Text Data**  
  *Repository:* [topic-analysis-text-data](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/topic-analysis-text-data)  
  *Description:* This repository provides methods and functions to find similar documents in terms of content and visual appearance, i.e. layout, from a large corpus of unstructured text data. 

- **Identifying fiscal fraud with anomaly detection techniques**  
  *Repository:* [identifying-fiscal-fraud](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/identifying-fiscal-fraud)  
  *Description:* Bachelor Seminar about exploring techniques to identify anomalies and fiscal fraud.

- **Optimization of Spiking Neural Networks**  
  *Repository:* [bachelor-seminar-kde](https://github.com/KlaraGtknst/bachelor-seminar-kde)      
  *Description:* Bachelor Seminar about Spiking Neural Networks. 


## 🚀 About Me

- 🔭 I’m currently working on **Data Mining of large unstructured (text) data and Information Retrieval research projects.**
- 🌱 I’m currently learning **Argumentative search & Web search** in the context of **Information Retrieval.**
- 👯 I’m looking to collaborate on **Natural Language Processing, Information Retrieval projects and open-source initiatives.**
- 💬 Ask me about **Natural Language Processing, Information Retrieval and Data Mining.**
- 😄 Pronouns: **She/Her**
- ⚡ Fun fact: **I enjoy visualizing complex data through creative infographics!**

## 📊 GitHub Stats

![Klara's GitHub stats](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=KlaraGtknst&show_icons=true&theme=default)

## 📫 Connect with Me

- **LinkedIn:** [Klara M. Gutekunst](https://www.linkedin.com/in/klara-maximiliane-gutekunst-36b463351 )
- **ORCID:** <a
    id="cy-effective-orcid-url"
    class="underline"
     href="https://orcid.org/0009-0002-6416-7873"
     target="orcid.widget"
     rel="me noopener noreferrer"
     style="vertical-align: top">
     <img
        src="https://orcid.org/sites/default/files/images/orcid_16x16.png"
        style="width: 1em; margin-inline-start: 0.5em"
        alt="ORCID iD icon"/>
      https://orcid.org/0009-0002-6416-7873
    </a>


Feel free to reach out if you're interested in collaborating or discussing any of my projects!
